With the increasing number of cyberattacks, Personal Identification Numbers (PINs), tokens, and passwords have been found to be insufficient for identity protection. Over the past decade, biometric systems have gained high popularity in providing secure mechanisms for user authentication. In this thesis, the safety of biometric data is rendered through the technique of ‘Cancelable Biometrics’. A cancelable biometric system for multi-instance biometrics has been designed with the use of deep learning. A deep learning architecture based on Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) is presented to create a novel, accurate, and secure cancelable biometric solution. An implementation of the proposed solution has also been carried out on the cloud platform to provide a ubiquitous cancelable biometric authentication service. A high authentication accuracy, biometric template security and cancelability, fast response times, and cost efficiency are the merits of the presented cancelable biometric system.  
The recommended method is a client-server biometric system with cancelable features. The biometric module and cancelable database are hosted by the server, while the biometric sensor is installed at the user or client site.  The framework is divided into five phases:
	Data capture
	Image Enhancement
	Minutiae Detection and Core Detection Algorithm
	Cartesian Block Transformation
	Reed-Solomon Error Correction
Cancelable biometrics offers a way to safeguard user privacy because the user's real biometric is never disclosed during the authentication procedure. It ensures that, with the aid of the auxiliary data/non-invertible transformations, template protection is accomplished at the feature level. Cancelable Biometrics is an emerging research area. Researchers from a variety of disciplines, including statistics, machine learning, computer vision, cryptography, and more, have gathered to discuss this fascinating subject. It is necessary to create novel feature extraction techniques that can increase the security of reversible biometric templates in order to improve validation and identification. Furthermore, real-time solutions could not be feasible if these approaches have high processing complexity and memory needs.
